Hi everybody and welcome back down to a previous lecture we saw how to loop through the Keys and value
pairs of a dictionary and this lecture we're going to look at some other ways to look to a dictionary.
Let's start off by looping through the keys of a dictionary using the keys method.
This method is useful when you don't need to use all of the values in a dictionary.
So let's have a look.
First let's create a dictionary.
And as you can see here I've just copied and pasted our birthday months dictionary from the previous
lecture and what I'm going to do now is out in a for loop for name in birthday months.
That is and we want the keys because this is the key method.
Print name title
and let's see what we get there.
Tony Pat Mary very very nice.
Now if you want to loop true the values in a dictionary you can use the values method and let's have
a look at us for months and birthday months.
Five use
we always remember your code and print months thought title that's run out.
There we go.
June November may.
Excellent.
Using this method pite impose all the values from a dictionary without checking for repeats.
If you had a dictionary with a massive amount of information this way it would not be very practical
if you were a dictionary without I.
We can use what's called a set a set is similar to a list except that each item in the set must be unique.
And how do we create a set.
Well let's have a look for when we just need to own and then that.
That's a word for months in set and the months that values
cola print months
thought title and what we get.
Now we have a set June May November.
OK so that's printed out our June main November but what happens if we edit our dictionary.
The set up Mary birthday is in June.
Let's run it now.
Actually let's just clear away the space so it's bit more legible.
Let's run our program again.
There we go.
So as you can see at the bottom June is only mentioned once.
So every value in a set must be unique.
So June although it's mentioned twice in a dictionary is shown only once.
Ok I hope that helps.
And as always if you have any questions please do not hesitate to reach out and ask me.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.